Bayes.ipynb : Gaussian Naive Bayes (GNB) is a probabilistic classifier based on Baye's Theorem. In this code, GNB is used on the Iris dataset as a classification model that can predict the species of an Iris flower based on the features like sepal length, sepal width, petal length and petal width.

DecisionTree.ipynb : This code uses Decision Tree classifier to perform classification on the well-known 'Iris' dataset, which contains 150 samples of iris flowers categorised into 3 species based on 4 features: sepal length, sepal width, petal lenght and petal width. We visalize the decision tree and then set max_depth = 2 using gini index, this is post-prunning. We then use pre-prunning on the same dataset. We use GridSearchCV to scan over the parameters like criteria (gini, entropy), max-depth and find the best-fit parameters. In this notebook, we also implement Decision tree regressor on Diabetes dataset to predict the outcome i.e. the quantitative measure of the disease based on 10 factors like BMI, blood pressure etc. 

Gas_prices_predict.ipynb : This code involves building a time series model that captures the patterns in the past natural gas prices data and incorporates additional features like seasonality using SARIMAX (Seasonal Auto Regressive Integrated Moving Average). ARIMA captures the general trend, movement and noise while SARIMAX captures recurring patterns at regular intervals which are seen in natural gas prices due to higher or lower demands in winters and summer.

K-means clustering:The K-means clustering algorithm which is an unsupervised learning method that groups data into K distinct clusters is applied on make_blobs dataset. Randomly picks K number of centroids, assigns each datapoint in X to the nearest centroid using Euclidean distance. Then calculates new centroids as the mean of all points in each cluster.

Linear_Regression: The Algerian Forest Fires Dataset is a popular dataset used to study the occurrence of forest fires in Algeria. It consists of two regions — Bejaia and Sidi Bel-Abbes. We use Linear Regression to predict a numerical feature called FWI: Fire forest weather index which helps to categorizes the data into 'fire' and 'no fire'.  We start with data cleaning and EDA: check for nan values. There is one nan value which occurs at the heading when the region change from Bejaia to Sidi Bel. We drop this, and convert the regions with index 0 and 1 and convert 'object' type into int and float where possible. We label the not-fire to 0 and fire to 1. Using seaborn we make histograms, pie chart and count plot. We check for multicollinearity and drop features which are highly correlated. We then use linear regression from sklearn and predict FWI. We also use Ridge, Lasso and ElasticNet models. WE also implement cross validation on Lasso Regression model.

logistic_regress: Logistic regression is a classification algorithm used to predict whether a given input belongs to a certain class when the target variable is binary. we use make_classification to create a dataset with two classes. We then do a train-test split and use logistic regression to predict the y-values. We also compute accuracy score, confusion matrix, and classification report with precision, recall and f1-score. A confusion matrix consists of numbers of 'Actual yes', 'Actual No', 'Predicted Yes' and 'Predicted No'. These give True Positive (TP), True Negative (TN), False Positive (FP) and False Negative (FN). The other matrix predicted are: Accuracy = (TP + TN) / Total, Precision = TP / (TP + FP) , Recall = TP / (TP + FN) and F1 Score = Harmonic mean of Precision and Recall.  

Logistic_Multiclass: We do hyperparameter tuning and cross validation using RandomizedSearchCV to find the best parameters of logistic regression to be used on the above classification data. Then we create a dataset using make_classification with classes = 3 and use Logistic regression for multi-class and also for imbalanced dataset. We make ROC curve which plots TPR = TP/(TP + FN) on y-axis and FPR = FP/(FP + TN) on x-axis for a dataset with 2 classes.

Random_forest:

RandomForest_regress:

Cafe_Sales_Cleaning: 
